Are right.
Welcome to another session of limitless calculus.
All right.
So we just covered what limits are.
And now we're going to find out how exactly the work is so great.
So how do we use limits in business calculus.
You will be asked to find limits or functions as input x approaches a specific number.
Here's an example
so limit of 2 x squared.
I'm just putting it in parentheses.
We usually do 2 x squared plus 10 x as x approaches 3.
So in the last video we did two things.
Number one is we tried graphing the function and then you know with the graph of the function trying
to see which number it is approaching.
However that's not very efficient.
We don't want to graph every function that we want to find a limit for something else.
We tried was plugging in numbers that are approaching that three.
But again that's not really exact.
That was more like a guess because we have evidence that it's approaching a number.
But we want something that's more reliable and quicker to do and easier.
That is why we're going to learn how to solve limits algebraically by the way if you're one network
algebraically means Eumenes using algebra.
OK so we're just going to use numbers and letters.
All right.
So we're going to go back to this problem in a bit.
For now however let's first cover properties of limits so that you can know how to apply them when finding
the limits of functions.
So there are a couple of rules.
Now don't be scared by the number of rules that are because each one is pretty much doing the same thing.
Let me show you what I'm talking about.
So I'll go over each rule and I'll go ahead and give you an example right there.
So let's cover properties
of limit's
so property number one is
the limit of a constant as x approaches A and A can be any number just equals the constant itself.
So remember what a constant function is a constant function looks like this x equals a number.
Right.
So for example it could be equals nine and on the other hand remember that a limit is the y value that
a function is approaching.
However remember that for a constant function the y values are always the same.
So it doesn't matter which way you're approaching here you're always going to be approaching the same
Y value which is the seed self.
So for example if I say limits of 9 9 is my F X as x approaches.
And again it doesn't matter what this number is.
It could be 22 that's still going to be 9.
Why.
Because this is a constant function and the y value of a constant function never changes.
So the limit of a constant It doesn't matter what you're approaching is the same constant and by the
way for all these rules I don't want you to memorize them just like that.
I want you to think about it.
So if you see the limit of a constant I want you to think to yourself.
OK.
So the y value of a constant never changes.
That means that doesn't matter which x value I'm approaching the limit is going to be c..
So once you think about it and you try to figure it out then you're going to have a much better chance
of getting the problem right.
I don't want you to look at this problem and just think oh limit of knowing what does that mean.
Well it's a constant.
So I wanted to go through that thought process and to try figuring out stuff that's a way that you're
going to succeed in the class.
OK so property number two.
So if you have a limit
of a constant times a function
as x approaches a then what you can do is you can take this constant outside of the limit.
You can bring it over here.
OK so this is going to be outside times.
And now we're going to get the regular limit.
So limits of fallbacks as x approaches a
right so what do we do.
We actually took this constant multiplying this function.
We take it outside and we just get the regular limit of f of x without the C because it sees now outside.
So for example you have it
of three x squared
x approaches 7
this equals Well remember we have a constant here.
There's three multiplying the x squared which is f a vector.
In this case.
So what we do is we take this three and we put it outside of the limit.
So we say three times and now we get the limit limits of remember that 3 is not there anymore because
it's outside.
So we just get the limit of x squared
as x approaches 7 by the way this is not solving the limit this is just using a property so that we
can eventually solve it later on we'll actually do some examples of what it means to solve a limit.
OK so let's go into our third property here.
So the third one is actually a combined property because we say if you have the limit of two functions
of x and g of X and the functions are either adding or subtracting one of the two as x approaches a
and I'll put these in parentheses then that equals the limit of the first plus or minus whichever one
you were doing.
The limit of this second.
So if you have the limit of f x plus or minus g of x x x approaches a that's going to be divided into
the limit of the first.
So Lim of f of x as x approaches a plus or minus the limit of g of X
as x approaches a arised or we're just breaking it up and doing the limit of each.
For example if I have that of x squared plus x cubed
as x approaches 2 then we have a sum.
So we can use property number three we can break it apart and say limits of x squared.
The first function as x approaches to and again don't forget this x approaches whatever.
For every limit that you do don't do only limit of x squared plus limit of execute right you got to
do this x approaches 2.
So we have limit of x squared as x approaches 2 plus because initially we're adding We just keep the
plus side limits of execute as x approaches 2.
And if this had been subtracting.
So if you had x squared minus execute.
The only difference would be that here instead of a plus you would have a minus.
Remember it's this property applies to both plus or minus.
So if you have X plus G of X then when you break it apart you're going to have a plus if you have F
X minus g of x and you are going to have a minus.
You just keep the same sign that you had initially.
That's why here the limit of x squared plus X cute becomes the limit of x squared plus the limit of
execute.
All right so bear with me.
We're going to do just a couple more properties.
It's going to be over before you know it.
Just like the dentist said.
So for number four
the limits of
f of x times g of x
x approaches a 1 to take a guess.
I think you know the answer already.
The limit of a multiplication is just the multiplication of the limits.
So what we do here is we just get the limit of f of x x x approaches a times the limit of g of x.
So we just take the limit of each so as becomes limits of the first function f of x
as x approaches a times the limits of g of X as x approaches a.
All right so quick example let's use the same functions we had and the other problem limits of x squared
times execute as x approaches a.
So in theory you could just multiply them inside and you know at the exponents as you can that would
give you access to the five.
However for the purposes of this example let's break it up and apply that property.
So we have two functions that are multiplying x squared times x cubed.
So what we do is we get the limits of x squared
as x approaches.
And by the way I had a pusses were doing an actual problem.
This has to be a number so let's make it nine.
All right.
As x approaches 9 times because again we take the limit of the first times the limit of the second limit
of x cubed x approaches 9.
That's it.
Moving on to our next one.
So if we had multiplication we need to have the version right.
These two always go together.
So limit of f of x over g of x.
So here we are dividing two functions as x approaches a well as you might know already.
What we do is simply we get the limit of the top over the limit of the bottom.
So we have limits of X as x approaches a.
All of this over the limits of g of X as x approaches say
see an example limits
to x squared minus one over 4 x to the third.
So the limit of that as x approaches zero that's going to be equal to.
And again we use a property because we're dividing two functions.
It's going to be the limit of the top limit of 2 x squared minus 1 as x approaches zero does not look
like a zero.
This one does over limits of 4 x cubed.
And again these parentheses you don't really have to put them.
Sometimes I do sometimes I don't.
It depends on the function.
It's up to you whether you want to keep them or not.
A limit of 4 x you as it approaches zero.
All right let's go to our number 6 which is are second to last property
so the limit of a function
raced to the nth power
as x approaches a.
So here we have the limit of a function that traced to a certain power and could be two could be three.
Could be whatever as x approaches a that just means that we're going to get the limit of f of x as x
approaches a and then we're going to raise the whole limit to the nth power.
So instead of only raising this function to the nth power we're going to take the limit first and then
raise everything to the nth power.
So limit of f of x to the n as x approaches a becomes
the limit of f of x as x approaches a and then the limit itself is a one being raised to the nth power.
So for example
limits of
X plus one to the third x approach is negative on this equals the limits of X plus 1.
So it's the function without the power as x approaches negative 1.
And then this whole limit to the third power.
All right.
So again you just take the limit of f of x and then when you get that you raise the whole limit to the
nth power.
And now we're going to do our last property for now which is number 7.
And it's kind of an extension of number 6.
But I'll do it as a separate property.
So it's more clear.
So if you have limits of
a roots of a function and the root doesn't have to be squared it could be you know the third root the
fourth root etc..
So we'll just say n as x approaches a want to take a guess of course.
So we take.
And then you do the limit inside limit of f of x x approaches a
right.
So just like we did with the exponent rule where we take the limit of the function and then raise the
limit to the exponent.
Here we do it with a root.
We take the limit of f of x and then we put everything the whole limit under a root.
And by the way this is an.
So for example if you have the limits of the cube root of x squared plus three x approaches 1 that's
going to be equal to the roots of the whole thing.
Limits of just the function by itself.
So it's X queered plus three as x approaches 1.
And there you have it.
That is your limit.